{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14980\viewh8080\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Overall goal of analyses in this folder are to compare the proportion of programs and cell types in adult vs ped myeloid cells\
\
Analyses in this folder:\
\
Merge_AssessIntegration.Rmd: merges ped/adult myeloid cells into single object for later use. Compare integration of ped/adult on UMAP. This helped to determine that ped/adult don\'92t form distinct clusters, and that, in general, we expect PROPORTIONS of cell states to vary, but not necessarily cell states themselves. \
\
CompareProgramProportions_PedNMF.Rmd: The simplest way of comparing cell states. Score ped/adult for ped programs (generated in 01a_NMF/NMF.Rmd and annotated in 01a_NMF/02a_AdultGBM10X_AnnotatePed_Recurrent), then compare breakdown of these programs. Because adult cells score quite lowly for these ped programs, determined that this was not most appropriate route- need to generate programs that are more representative of both ped and adult myeloid cells.\
\
CompareProgramProportions_CorrelateAdult.Ped.NMF.Rmd: One approach for generating programs that are more representative of both ped and adult myeloid cells- run NMF separately on ped/adult (NMF/Adult/Myeloid/AdultCohorts_DeNovoNMF.Rmd) myeloid cells, then use this to determine shared/specific programs. Drawback of this approach: difficult to control for both subtype and age in this analysis. The differences found in adult, for example, may be due to the fact that these programs were generated on a dataset that includes a lot of IDHmut cells, which is not in ped.\
\
CompareProgramProportions_MergedAdult.PedNMF.Rmd: Another approach for generating programs that are more representative of both ped and adult myeloid cells- run NMF on ped/adult myeloid cell simultaneously (NMF/Adult/Myeloid/Ped.Adult_merged_NMF.Rmd), then use these programs to score myeloid cells and compare proportions. This approach may be better than the previous- reduces chance that programs are subtype-specific. Less subjective, as it doesn\'92t require merging some programs into \'93shared\'94 and keeping some as \'93specific\'94. One drawback- Phago and IFN programs are not well represented here. A few options for dealing with this are included in the file.}