{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16660\viewh7700\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ** Updated as of 3/21/22\
\
Overall:\
1) NMF/Liger ran on pediatric myeloid cells. \
2) Correlate with adult GBM 10X to help annotate\
3) Identify cell types (macrophage/microglia). \
4) Compare programs (+ cells types) to adult myeloid cells (SmartSeq2 IDHmut/GBM datasets). \
\
In detail:\
\
01a_NMF\
	Ran NMF locally for myeloid cells, as well as with Cycling set as separate program (this option not used downstream)\
\
	programs plotted in NMF_plots.Rmd (heat maps, UMAP, etc\
\
	Correlate ped programs with adult gbm 10x to help annotate. Correlated with both primary and recurrent tumors from adult GBM 10X dataset, but recurrent used downstream.\
\
	Tested different numbers of repeats (10/30/50) in NMF_10vs30vs50_repeats.Rmd. For myeloid cells at least (nothing else tested), there was no real difference between number of repeats, so 10x used downstream.\
\
01b_Ped.Adult.NMF\
	Run de novo NMF on adult myeloid cells (smartseq2, idhmut, gbm) in AdultCohorts_DeNovoNMF.Rmd. Two main options here- separately for IDHmut/GBM, or merged for IDHmut/GBM. Tried to assess which makes more sense (which represents cluster split better, etc) and decided to use the merged option (i.e., merging idhmut/gbm adult myeloid count matrix \'97> running NMF) moving forward.\
\
	Run de novo NMF on merged ped/adult myeloid count matrix in Ped.Adult_merged_NMF.Rmd. This option not used downstream- decided that running separately for ped/adult then correlating made more sense.\
\
01c_Liger\
	Run integrative NMF (liger) on pediatric myeloid cells. correlate with NMF programs. Main purpose here is to help inform the number of programs to use.\
\
02_AdditionalAnnotation\
	No ordering to these Rmd files, none depend on others\
	\
	Used for additional levels of annotation (primarily microglia/macropahge) on top of programs. Also compare programs to these cell types to help annotate programs- some are exclusively microglia/macrophage, others are a mix\
\
	Info for each file:\
\
	Microglia.vs.Macrophage.Rmd\
		Used microglia/macrophage geneses from Li- scored ped myeloid, various visualizations. Compare to myeloid NMF programs\
\
	MgTAM.vs.MoTAM.Rmd\
		Similar to microglia vs macrophage, but using geneses from Adult GBM 10X paper (supplemental table comparing mgTAM vs MoTAM)\
\
	AdultGBM10X_Mo.Mg.Mono.Prol_AnnotatePed.Rmd\
		Similar to above, but using geneses from adult GBM 10X paper- generated by me. Set all cells as either mgTAM, moTAM, cycling, monocytes, then FIndAllMarkers. These markers generated in 01_Preprocessing/03_PreprocessAdultDatasets and used here.\
\
	Artifact_Stevens2020.Rmd\
		Stevens et al 2020 described artifact in myeloid cells generated by enzymatic dissociation. Used this geneset here, scored myeloid cells, compared to programs- are any of our programs potentially artifacts? Stress_Response shows correlation, but weaker than in paper- may just be microglia\
\
	FunctionalMyeloidMarkers_FromLi.Rmd\
		Li sent markers from a paper that described functional states in myeloid cells. Scored these here, compared to myeloid programs. No clear correlation, not used downstream\
		\
03_CompareToAdult\
	Overall goal of analyses in this folder are to compare the proportion of programs and cell types in adult vs ped myeloid cells\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
	Analyses in this folder:\
\
		01_Merge_AssessIntegration.Rmd: merges ped/adult myeloid cells into single object for later use. Compare integration of ped/adult on UMAP. This helped to determine that ped/adult don\'92t form distinct clusters, and that, in general, we expect PROPORTIONS of cell states to vary, but not necessarily cell states themselves. \
	\
		02a_CompareProgramProportions_PedNMF.Rmd: The simplest way of comparing cell states. Score ped/adult for ped programs (generated in 01a_NMF/NMF.Rmd and annotated in 01a_NMF/02a_AdultGBM10X_AnnotatePed_Recurrent), then compare breakdown of these programs. Because adult cells score quite lowly for these ped programs, determined that this was not most appropriate route- need to generate programs that are more representative of both ped and adult myeloid cells.\
\
		02b_CompareProgramProportions_CorrelateAdult.Ped.NMF.Rmd: One approach for generating programs that are more representative of both ped and adult myeloid cells- run NMF separately on ped/adult (NMF/Adult/Myeloid/AdultCohorts_DeNovoNMF.Rmd) myeloid cells, then use this to determine shared/specific programs. Drawback of this approach: difficult to control for both subtype and age in this analysis. The differences found in adult, for example, may be due to the fact that these programs were generated on a dataset that includes a lot of IDHmut cells, which is not in ped.\
\
		02c_CompareProgramProportions_MergedAdult.PedNMF.Rmd: Another approach for generating programs that are more representative of both ped and adult myeloid cells- run NMF on ped/adult myeloid cell simultaneously (NMF/Adult/Myeloid/Ped.Adult_merged_NMF.Rmd), then use these programs to score myeloid cells and compare proportions. This approach may be better than the previous- reduces chance that programs are subtype-specific. Less subjective, as it doesn\'92t require merging some programs into \'93shared\'94 and keeping some as \'93specific\'94. One drawback- Phago and IFN programs are not well represented here. A few options for dealing with this are included in the file.\
\
	03_Macrophage.Microglia_CompareProportions\
	Compare proportion of macrophage/microglia in ped vs adult (based on marker gene expression)\
}